{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16740\viewh19880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Building a Data & AI Function
\f1\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
While a data & AI strategy is important for every organization to have, it doesn't mean that a dedicated data and AI team is always needed. The right time to form a dedicated data and AI function in a company is when data begins to play a strategic role in achieving business goals, such as driving e\uc0\u64259 ciencies, creating new revenue streams, or enhancing customer experiences. This typically occurs when an organization reaches a level of complexity where data silos, manual processes, or lack of advanced analytics limit growth or competitiveness.\
\
Examples of when to form one:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Business Complexity & Scale: The organization has grown to a scale where data silos, manual analysis, and inconsistent metrics impede decision-making. Examples include enterprises with multiple departments, regions, or product lines requiring integrated analytics.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Strategic Use of AI: The company needs advanced capabilities like predictive analytics, real-time insights, or AI-driven automation for critical processes (e.g., predictive maintenance, fraud detection, or personalized recommendations).\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Rapid Growth or Digital Transformation: During rapid expansion or digital initiatives, the company needs to scale data collection, processing, and insight generation to support new products or markets.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Regulatory and Compliance Requirements: The organization operates in industries with stringent data regulations (e.g., GDPR, HIPAA) requiring accurate reporting and data governance. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Examples of when NOT to form one:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Limited Data Use: The business operates with simple processes, small data volumes, or minimal reliance on data-driven decisions (e.g., small local businesses, early-stage startups in non-data-intensive sectors).\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
No Clear ROI from Data Investments: The cost of building a data and AI function outweighs the benefits due to unclear or insufficient use cases for advanced data analysis.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Misaligned Business Objectives: If the organization\'92s strategic goals do not yet align with leveraging data as a competitive advantage, a formal data and AI function may not yield meaningful returns. For instance, a company in a phase of rapid product development or market expansion might prioritize speed-to-market and operational agility over detailed analytics or AI capabilities. In such cases, data initiatives might distract from immediate priorities or lack the focus to deliver measurable impact.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Examples of Data & AI Team Structures\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lean Startup Model: For startups or smaller businesses beginning to use data for competitive advantage. Some roles include:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Small, multi-functional team covering data engineering, analysis, and lightweight AI experimentation.\
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Outsourced expertise for specialized tasks (e.g., ML model development).\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Centralized: Ideal for organizations needing uniform data governance and centralized decision-making. Some roles include:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chief Data, Analytics, & AI Officer (CDAO/CDAIO) or Head of Data, Analytics, & AI\
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Analytics Engineers (Data Engineer + Data/BI Analyst)\
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data Scientists & AI Engineers\
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data Governance and Compliance Specialists\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Decentralized: Suitable for large organizations with diverse business units needing tailored insights. The roles include the same or similar roles as a centralized team, but they are embedded in individual business units, and no C-Suite or Head role typically exists. A small, centralized team for governance and standards is typically created.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hub & Spoke: For companies balancing centralized control and business unit autonomy. Some roles include:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chief Data, Analytics, & AI Officer (CDAO/CDAIO) or Head of Data, Analytics, & AI\
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Centralized team (Hub) for data engineering, data science, governance, and AI innovation.\
\ls3\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Embedded team (Spokes) in business units for domain-specific analytics and insights. Still reports to Head of Data with dotted line to business unit.}