{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16740\viewh19880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Technology Evaluations
\f1\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A technology evaluation is crucial for making informed decisions that minimize risks and maximize returns. It ensures alignment with business needs, avoids costly mistakes by identifying potential pitfalls early on, and facilitates the selection of a solution that is not only effective but also scalable, secure, and cost-efficient in the long run. Key components of a good technology evaluation are below.\
\

\f0\b Part 1: Defining the Need and Initial Research
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Problem Statement Documentation: Clearly articulate the problem the new technology aims to solve. Justify why existing solutions are inadequate. Document this in a central repository.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Technology Research: Investigate at least three potential technologies. For each, document:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cost Analysis: Estimate current and future costs (considering scalability).\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Robustness and Error Handling: Evaluate how the technology handles errors, recovers from failures (including issues with data sources and destinations), and maintains data integrity.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Security: Evaluate the security features and compliance certifications of each technology.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Scalability: Determine how the technology scales with increasing data volume (e.g., automatic horizontal scaling, vertical scaling). Specify scaling limits and potential bottlenecks.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Disaster Recovery: Outline the technology's disaster recovery plan. Identify our responsibilities and required resources.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Vendor Support & Service Level Agreement (SLA): Investigate the level of vendor support available, including uptime commitment, response times, and support channels.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Maintenance: Consider long-term maintenance costs and the effort required to keep the technology updated and running smoothly.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Suitability Assessment: Analyze how well the technology fits the specific use case\'97consider both advantages and disadvantages.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Integration: Assess the ease of integrating the technology with existing systems and workflows.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Expertise and Learning Curve: Assess whether in-house expertise exists. If not, consider the effort required to acquire necessary skills (e.g., learning a new programming language).\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \

\f0\b Part 2: Recommendation & Proof of Concept
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Recommendation: Based on the research, recommend a technology, secure agreement from key stakeholders.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Proof of Concept (POC): Conduct a POC to validate the chosen technology.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Clear Goals: Define specific, measurable goals for the POC.\
\ls2\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Documentation: Thoroughly document the POC methodology, data used, and results.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Documentation of Findings: Document both positive and negative findings from the POC.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \

\f0\b Part 3: Iteration & Final Decision
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Issue Resolution: If the POC reveals significant issues, either select a different technology or revise the evaluation criteria. Repeat steps in Phase 1 and 2.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Approval and Implementation: If the POC is successful, share the results with stakeholders and obtain approval before proceeding with full implementation.}