{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16740\viewh19880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Timing is Important
\f1\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
When to act is just as important as what to do. Organizations shouldn\'92t expect to build out every component of a data and AI journey at once. Instead, success comes from starting small, iterating, and scaling as business needs evolve.\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Strategy First, But Lightweight: 
\f1\b0 Define a clear vision, objectives, and initial use cases early, but keep the strategy pragmatic. The goal is to create direction, not a rigid plan.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Build vs. Buy Decisions: 
\f1\b0 Early on, lean toward buying tools or leveraging managed services to move quickly. As complexity and scale increase, reassess where building custom capabilities provides strategic advantage.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Team Formation: 
\f1\b0 Start with a small, multifunctional team or outsourced expertise. Establishing a centralized CoE or hub-and-spoke model is better suited once the organization reaches a level of complexity (e.g., multiple business units, advanced AI needs, or strict compliance requirements).\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Infrastructure Evolution: 
\f1\b0 Many new organizations start with fragmented or ad-hoc data infrastructure. Consolidation should begin in the growth stage to unify systems and reduce silos, with enterprise-scale platforms introduced as the organization matures. Over time, infrastructure should progress from \'93good enough\'94 to unified, resilient, and optimized.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Governance & Ethics: 
\f1\b0 Begin with lightweight governance and privacy practices that match current scale. Formal governance frameworks and Responsible AI policies can expand as data volumes and model use grow.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Iterate With Business Growth: 
\f1\b0 Each phase of business expansion (new products, new markets, regulatory requirements) should trigger a reassessment of strategy, infrastructure, and team structure. Timing is not a one-time decision but an ongoing adjustment. }